# Overview covered geospatial assets

## cams-global-reanalysis-eac4

EAC4 (ECMWF Atmospheric Composition Reanalysis 4) is the fourth generation ECMWF global reanalysis of atmospheric composition. Reanalysis combines model data with observations from across the world into a globally complete and consistent dataset using a model of the atmosphere based on the laws of physics and chemistry. This principle, called data assimilation, is based on the method used by numerical weather prediction centres and air quality forecasting centres, where every so many hours (12 hours at ECMWF) a previous forecast is combined with newly available observations in an optimal way to produce a new best estimate of the state of the atmosphere, called analysis, from which an updated, improved forecast is issued. Reanalysis works in the same way to allow for the provision of a dataset spanning back more than a decade. Reanalysis does not have the constraint of issuing timely forecasts, so there is more time to collect observations, and when going further back in time, to allow for the ingestion of improved versions of the original observations, which all benefit the quality of the reanalysis product. [https://ads.atmosphere.copernicus.eu/datasets/cams-global-reanalysis-eac4?tab=overview]

Config file: *cams-global-reanalysis-eac4.json*

Available from 2003 onwards.

Horizontal resolution: 0.75°x0.75°

Vertical resolution: 60 model levels. Pressure levels: 1000, 950, 925, 900, 850, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 250, 200, 150, 100, 70, 50, 30, 20, 10, 7, 5, 3, 2, 1 hPa

Temporal resolution: 3-hourly

Downloaded as netCDF

**Open question**: How to handle vertical resolutions?

## reanalysis-era5-single-levels

ERA5 is the fifth generation ECMWF reanalysis for the global climate and weather for the past 8 decades. Data is available from 1940 onwards. ERA5 replaces the ERA-Interim reanalysis.

Reanalysis combines model data with observations from across the world into a globally complete and consistent dataset using the laws of physics. This principle, called data assimilation, is based on the method used by numerical weather prediction centres, where every so many hours (12 hours at ECMWF) a previous forecast is combined with newly available observations in an optimal way to produce a new best estimate of the state of the atmosphere, called analysis, from which an updated, improved forecast is issued. Reanalysis works in the same way, but at reduced resolution to allow for the provision of a dataset spanning back several decades. Reanalysis does not have the constraint of issuing timely forecasts, so there is more time to collect observations, and when going further back in time, to allow for the ingestion of improved versions of the original observations, which all benefit the quality of the reanalysis product. [https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/datasets/reanalysis-era5-single-levels]

Config file: *cams-global-reanalysis-eac4.json*

Available from 1940 onwards.

Horizontal resolution: 0.25°x0.25°

Temporal resolution: Hourly

Downloaded as netCDF

## Espon

ESPON is an EU funded programme that bridges research with policies. We provide territorial analyses, data and maps to: 

support EU development policies –and particularly Cohesion Policy- with facts and evidence. 
help public authorities to benchmark their region or city, identify new challenges and potentials and shape successful development policies for the future. 
All our content is publicly available on our website to download it and use it. [https://database.espon.eu/api/]

Config file: *espon.json* can be generated by *espon.generate_espon_json()*

Horizontal resolution: Different NUTS levels depending on the asset

Temporal resolution: Different depending on the asset

Downloaded as csv. There are two layers, one with the layer of data of interest an one file that contains the shape of the different NUTS. 

## EOC_Atmosphere_Coverage_Service

This Web Coverage Service provides access to atmospheric coverage products within the Earth Observation Center (EOC). [https://geoservice.dlr.de/web/services]

Config file: *EOC_Atmosphere_Coverage_Service.json* can be generated by *wms_tools.get_eoc_atmosphere_config_json()*

Downloaded as netCDF.

## EOC_Elevation_Map_Service

This Web Mapping Service provides access to geospatial elevation map products within the Earth Observation Center (EOC). [https://geoservice.dlr.de/web/services]

Uses wms: A Web Map Service (WMS) is an interface for retrieving map excerpts over the World Wide Web. It is a type of web service specifically designed for visualizing geospatial data. WMS can use both raster and vector data as its data source. The result of a request is a map excerpt in a simple raster graphic format.

WMS allows geospatial data to be displayed in image formats such as PNG or JPEG. Users can access WMS through their web browser to view the maps. Therefore, WMS is a component of a web-based Geographic Information System (GIS).

Config file: *EOC_Elevation_Map_Service.json* can be generated by *wms_tools.get_eoc_elevation_map_service_config_json()*

Downloaded as geoTiff.

## EOC_Land_Map_Service

This Web Map Service provides access to land coverage products within the Earth Observation Center (EOC). [https://geoservice.dlr.de/web/services]

Config file: *EOC_Land_Map_Service.json* can be generated by *wms_tools.get_eoc_land_map_service_config_json()*

Downloaded as geoTiff.

**Open question on EOC DLR service**: EOC downloads from the DLR are always with the same resolution independend of the bbox. Has to be changed in download tiles with max resolotion and stitch the tiles together.


## land_copernicus

Vurently only Treecover [https://land.copernicus.eu/en/products/high-resolution-layer-tree-cover-density]

Config file: land_copernicus.json

*ToDo*: It is downloading with fixed tiff size -> adapt strategy from corine_copernicus

## corine_copernicus

In the early 1980’s, the European Commission recognized the need for a comprehensive, detailed, and harmonized dataset on the land cover and land use of the European continent. At that time, national land cover maps were often inconsistent and incomparable across borders, making the prospect of monitoring the European environment at a continental scale all but impossible. In response, the European Commission launched the CORINE (Coordination of Information on the Environment) program in an effort to develop a standardized methodology for producing continent-scale land cover, biotope, and air quality maps. In 1990, the first CORINE Land Cover dataset was produced. Since then, it has become a flagship component of the European Environment Agency’s Copernicus Land Monitoring Service, where it has provided essential information on European land cover/land use for over three decades. [https://land.copernicus.eu/en/products/corine-land-cover]

**ToDo**: Add land use

Config file: corine_copernicus.json

## spei.json

The Standardised Precipitation-Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) is a multiscalar drought index based on climatic data. It can be used for determining the onset, duration and magnitude of drought conditions with respect to normal conditions in a variety of natural and managed systems such as crops, ecosystems, rivers, water resources, etc. [https://spei.csic.es/]

Available from 1901 onwards.

Horizontal resolution: 0.5°x0.5°

Config file: spei.json


## Copernicus_DEM
The Copernicus DEM is a Digital Surface Model (DSM) that represents the surface of the Earth including buildings, infrastructure and vegetation. The Copernicus DEM is provided in 3 different instances: EEA-10, GLO-30 and GLO-90. Data were acquired through the TanDEM-X mission between 2011 and 2015. The datasets were made available for use in 2019 and will be maintained until 2026.
[https://dataspace.copernicus.eu/explore-data/data-collections/copernicus-contributing-missions/collections-description/COP-DEM]

Downloaded via: https://documentation.dataspace.copernicus.eu/APIs/OData.html

Config file: copernicus_dem.json

### DGED (Digital Geospatial Elevation Data)
- **DGED** refers to Digital Geospatial Elevation Data, which is a dataset that represents terrain elevation in a digital form.  
- **DGED** typically follows international standards, and it is often used in geospatial analysis, mapping, and other applications that require high-quality and accurate elevation models.  
- The **DGED** format is usually employed for more detailed or updated datasets.

### DTED (Digital Terrain Elevation Data)
- **DTED** refers to Digital Terrain Elevation Data, a standard format developed by the U.S. military for digital elevation models (DEM) of the Earth's surface.  
- **DTED** is generally used for military and defense purposes and is known for providing terrain data at specific resolution levels (Level 0, 1, and 2, etc.), but it has also found use in civil and scientific applications.  
- **DTED** datasets are often used for mission planning, navigation, and terrain analysis.  

#### Differences:
- **DGED** is a more modern, high-resolution elevation model that fits the latest geospatial standards and often supports advanced applications.  
- **DTED**  is an older, but widely used military standard for elevation data, focusing on terrain analysis and broader applications in defense and navigation.  

#### In summary:
- **DGED**: More recent, often higher-resolution geospatial elevation data. 
- **DTED**: Standard terrain elevation data used especially in military contexts.

**other abertions:**

 - **ACM**: This could stand for "Accuracy Mask," which provides information about the accuracy of the elevation data in different areas.
- **EDM**: This might be "Elevation Data Mask," indicating areas where elevation data is available or valid.
- **FLM**: This could be "Feature Layer Mask," which might include information about specific features in the elevation data, such as water bodies or urban areas.
- **HEM**: This might stand for "Height Error Mask," providing details about the potential errors in the height measurements.
- **WBN**: This could be "Water Body Network," indicating the presence and extent of water bodies within the DEM tile.

**allowed parameters for resolution in copernicus_dem.json:**
- 'DEM1_SAR_DTE_30'
- 'DEM1_SAR_DGE_30'
- 'DEM1_SAR_DGE_90'
- 'DEM1_SAR_DTE_90'


## hydrosheds

https://www.hydrosheds.org/products

The Global Lakes and Wetlands Database (GLWD) version 2 provides a comprehensive and seamless global map of inland surface waters distinguished into 33 waterbody and wetland types. GLWD v2 was developed by harmonizing the best available ground- and satellite-based data sources and has been designed to represent the maximum non-overlapping extents of aquatic ecosystems over the broad contemporary period of 1990-2020.

GLWD v2 represents a total of 18.2 million km2 of wetlands at a grid cell resolution of 15 arc-seconds (approximately 500 m at the equator). The data consists of a map of the dominant waterbody or wetland type in each grid cell, as well as 33 individual class layers which represent the sub-cell fraction of each specific class within each grid cell.

‍
Version 2 of GLWD is the successor of the widely-used GLWD version 1 (Lehner & Döll, 2004). The quality, resolution, and format of GLWD v2 significantly improves upon GLWD v1 and supersedes the older version.

Each of the zip-files contains a Technical Documentation (GLWD_TechDoc_v2_delta.pdf) which provides additional information. This documentation is also available at https://www.hydrosheds.org/products/glwd.

GLWD_v2_delta_combined_classes_tif.zip" contains the combined wetland extents of all 33 classes (in ha and percent) as well as the dominant wetland type per grid cell, in GeoTIFF format

GLWD_ID,Class_name
0,Dryland (non-wetland)
1,Freshwater lake
2,Saline lake
3,Reservoir
4,Large river
5,Large estuarine river
6,Other permanent waterbody
7,Small streams
8,"Lacustrine, forested"
9,"Lacustrine, non-forested"
10,"Riverine, regularly flooded, forested"
11,"Riverine, regularly flooded, non-forested"
12,"Riverine, seasonally flooded, forested"
13,"Riverine, seasonally flooded, non-forested"
14,"Riverine, seasonally saturated, forested"
15,"Riverine, seasonally saturated, non-forested"
16,"Palustrine, regularly flooded, forested"
17,"Palustrine, regularly flooded, non-forested"
18,"Palustrine, seasonally saturated, forested"
19,"Palustrine, seasonally saturated, non-forested"
20,"Ephemeral, forested"
21,"Ephemeral, non-forested"
22,"Arctic/boreal peatland, forested"
23,"Arctic/boreal peatland, non-forested"
24,"Temperate peatland, forested"
25,"Temperate peatland, non-forested"
26,"Tropical peatland, forested"
27,"Tropical peatland, non-forested"
28,Mangrove
29,Saltmarsh
30,Delta
31,Other coastal wetland
32,"Salt pan, saline/brackish wetland"
33,Paddy rice

## Night time lights

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-020-0510-y

Check regulary for new version (Current 8, 2023-09-27)

https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Harmonization_of_DMSP_and_VIIRS_nighttime_light_data_from_1992-2018_at_the_global_scale/9828827/8

https://figshare.com/ndownloader/articles/9828827/versions/8

todo


## World settlement footprint

already included in EOC_Land_Map_Service... needs overhaul

## iMAP

The GlobalHighAirPollutants (GHAP) dataset refers to the long-term, full-coverage, high-resolution, and high-quality datasets of global ground-level air pollutants over land. Similarly, it is generated from the big data using artificial intelligence by considering the spatiotemporal heterogeneity of air pollution, and now it contains PM2.5 (1 km), NO2 (1 km), CO (1 km), and O3 (10 km), and more species of air pollutants will be generated in the future.

https://weijing-rs.github.io/product.html

**(1) GlobalHighPM2.5 dataset**

Big data (seamless): 1 km, 2000-Present, Daily/Monthly/Yearly (Version 2)
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6449740

**(2) GlobalHighO3 dataset**

Big data (seamless): 10 km, 2000-Present, Daily/Monthly/Yearly (Version 1)
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10208187

**(3) GlobalHighNO2 dataset**

Big data (seamless): 1 km, 2019-Present, Daily/Monthly/Yearly (Version 1)
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7397058

**(4) GlobalHighCO dataset**

Big data (seamless): 1 km, 2019-Present, Daily/Monthly/Yearly (Version 1)
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14207362
